## Asking good technical questions is part of the problem solving process
Asking good questions is a significant part of the problem-solving process. In this case, I'm referring to asking yourself ([rubber ducky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck)) or others about technical topics while in a situation that many think of as troubleshooting. Too often, we resort to guessing, vague intuition, and brute force until we believe the problem is solved. This may work for some time, but it won’t solve for the long term and may introduce new and subtle bugs that will cause further complexity and confusion.

The following applies to many forms of communication. You will benefit early by getting comfortable reading software, vendor,  API, and  RFC documentation. As a student, you will be directed to your primary text or coursework when a content question best addresses your question. If you feel further topic discussion with me will benefit you, take the time to think carefully and then describe your area of concern. There will be times when you will need to ask clear, concise, and relevant questions with the appropriate level of detail. A general question will receive a general answer, while a specific question with sufficient and appropriate details will allow for a detailed response. This is a skill worth developing. Consider the following basic format and adjust according to the topic and form of communication (emails, voicemail, forums, git, calendar invites, IRC, Slack, etc.).

**TITLE:** Write a title that concisely summarizes your specific problem. Summarize your problem in one sentence. What details will help identify, solve, and discuss your problem?

**PROBLEM:** Introduce the problem by providing as much relevant information as possible. When stepping through a problem, clear and concise descriptions are critical. Provide enough details to help others reproduce the problem. Include lab versions, error messages, environment variables, API keys (careful with credentials), or unusual circumstances that make your question unique.

**PROOFREAD:** Scan your message for accuracy. If you were seeing the message and attached items for the first time, would it make sense? Have you provided enough information so that someone can run the code, container, VM, or lab? Images, screencasts, code snippets, error messages, log files, route tables, etc. are encouraged, but make sure that what you provide is relevant. Add any additional information or remove extraneous information. Spelling, grammar, and punctuation are important. When it comes to environment variables, endpoint names, or any code, the values must be exact.
